Caffeine addition
History of caffeine

Let's first talk about the history of caffeine. According to Chinese legend, the Chinese emperor Shennong, reputed to have reigned in about 3000 BCE, inadvertently discovered tea when he noted that when certain leaves fell into boiling water, a fragrant and restorative drink resulted.
The earliest credible evidence of either coffee drinking or knowledge of the coffee plant appears in the middle of the fifteenth century, in the Sufi monasteries of the Yemen in southern Arabia.From Mocha, coffee spread to Egypt and North Africa, and by the 16th century, it had reached the rest of the Middle East, Persia and Turkey. From the Middle East, coffee drinking spread to Italy, then to the rest of Europe, and coffee plants were transported by the Dutch to the East Indies and to the Americas.
Kola nut use appears to have ancient origins. It is chewed in many West African cultures, in both private and social settings, to restore vitality and ease hunger pangs.
The earliest evidence of cocoa bean use comes from residue found in an ancient Mayan pot dated to 600 BCE.
In 1819, the German chemist Friedlieb Ferdinand Runge isolated relatively pure caffeine for the first time; he called it "Kaffebase" (i.e., a base that exists in coffee).

Caffeine in everyday products

Caffeine is present in coffee, tea, energy drinks, and soft drinks. It can be found in all kinds of chocolate, especially in the black one. Of course, caffeine tablets can be found in any drugstore but we don't take them usually. 
How caffeine affects our body?
It is a central nervous system stimulant that can help you focus, enhance your metabolism, and improve your mood. Many people assume that caffeine boosts alertness and motivation to work in the morning. Coffee and other caffeinated beverages may easily become addictive. This is because of the chemical alterations in the brain caused by long-term usage. When caffeine is taken on a daily basis, it creates tolerance in the same way that other drugs or alcohol do. After a while, the user will require more and more Caffeine to reach the same level of alertness. Caffeine is quickly absorbed via the small intestine and dissolved into the bloodstream after consumption. The chemical may cross the blood-brain barrier and enter the brain since it is both water and fat soluble. Caffeine is structurally similar to the chemical adenosine, which is found naturally in the brain. It is sufficiently similar to adenosine that it may fit nicely into adenosine receptors in brain cells, effectively inhibiting them. The adenosine created over time normally binds to these receptors, resulting in a fatigued sensation. Caffeine molecules block those receptors, preventing this from happening ,instead, a feeling of alertness and energy is felt until the caffeine is digested. Additionally, when the adenosine receptors are blocked, some of the brain's own natural stimulants, such as dopamine, are produced and act more efficiently. The additional adenosine causes the adrenal glands to generate adrenaline, another stimulant, which improves alertness and decreases fatigue. The chemical and physical properties of the brain alter over time in those who consume caffeine on a regular basis. In order to preserve homeostasis, brain cells will begin to develop additional adenosine receptors. This is how Caffeine tolerance develops.
Signs of caffeine addiction

Caffeine addiction symptoms include: 
- If you skip your morning mug, your head starts to pound. 
- Before your first dosage, you're quite grumpy. 
- You can't focus till you've had a cup of coffee. 
- To achieve the same benefits as before, you'll need more. 
You're constantly a bit anxious.

Caffeine withdrawal

Caffeine withdrawal is a medically-recognized condition that occurs when people experience significant symptoms after abruptly quitting Caffeine consumption. These symptoms typically appear within a day of quitting and can last a week or more.
Symptoms of Caffeine withdrawal include:
Headache
Irritability
Fatigue
Anxiety
Difficulty concentrating
Depressed mood
Tremors
Low energy
Gradually reducing Caffeine intake over several weeks instead of quitting “cold turkey” can help reduce the severity of withdrawal symptoms. Compared to other addictions, the withdrawal and recovery periods from Caffeine are relatively short. Most Caffeine addiction symptoms can be resolved in 7-12 days of consumption reduction. During that period, the brain will naturally decrease the number of adenosine receptors on each cell in response to the sudden lack of Caffeine. If an individual can decrease intake until it becomes nothing, within a few weeks the levels of adenosine receptors in the brain will reset to their baseline levels; the addiction will be broken.